
Hello to you, dear listeners. What a pleasure it is to be with you here on The Oprah Podcast. The brilliant Melody Hobson, the brilliant and well-dressed Melody Hobson.

Thank you. Co-CEO and president of Ariel Investments is back with me in the tea house. And Melody has written a fantastic children's book.

It's a New York Times bestseller. It's called a children's book, but it's actually for anybody who wants priceless facts about money. And I think all parents should get this book for your children and also for yourself, because I have to tell you, I learned so much.

Earlier this year, we recorded a podcast about the book. And if you haven't listened or watched it yet, I strongly recommend that you do. And, you know, since I started this podcast last year, Melody's episode is the of all the people we've talked to is the most liked episode of all so far.

And since you liked it so much, I asked Melody if she would come back to talk with me, but this time with young people who are a little bit older, Gen Z. Maybe you are a member of Gen Z or you have one in your life like I do. And it's in the news every day that this generation has been hit harder by rising prices, by higher housing costs, by large student loan balances and more overall debt than the millennials before them and certainly our generation. So there's a lot to unpack.

Thank you for coming back. Most liked. Thank you for having me.

I was very excited about that, but I do like to overachieve. I know, but I think it's so interesting that a conversation with kids about money out of all the conversations we've had would be the most well received, the most liked because it's so absent in our society. It creates so much fear.

And I think I've worked really hard to make it to break it down and make it approachable. So I think that was part of the reason that it went so well. That's what you did.

And and and when I finished reading this and finished talking to you on the last podcast, I said, Melody, you really should do another book. You should be doing a book for these Gen Zers that we talked about. I know you got a lot going on, but just think about it.

I mean, I think it's I actually think it's a service. And that's what we want today to be a service for you. So why are is this generation? Why is this generation having so many financial stresses? Well, you hit it. 

The struggle is real. The struggle is real. So there are 67 million of them ages 13 to 28.

Just so we can establish. That's what we're talking about. Sixty seven million of them.

So this is a big group of people. They are going into the world with a greater financial burden than the previous generation before them, which would be the millennials almost double the debt of Gen X, which is who I am. Yeah. 

And so this is this is a real situation. The debt almost double. They go into the world with about one hundred thousand dollars in debt.

And our generation, it was so it is real. It is real. It is not just.

Yeah, it's not in our head. It's not made up. They weren't frivolous.

But there are things that account for it. You talked about student loans in the last 20 years. College has costs have doubled in 20 years.

So that's real. Those are big numbers. And a lot of them are taking out loans to pay for that education.

The other thing you talked about is inflation. Inflation was virtually dead for decades. Right.

And it's come back really strongly in the last few years. So inflation, just the cost of living has gone up much more than it was before. And then you talked about housing.

We've also seen big changes in housing prices in this country. And so that has absolutely affected them. As less homes get built and there's less inventory, houses cost more.

And that is something that has actually happened. And you've seen that starting during COVID, where everything in terms of new homes being built, slowed down dramatically. And so a lot of young people are actually changing their attitudes about home ownership, which traditionally was the American dream.

But what a lot of people now feel like they can't. So they still want to own a home. It feels a little bit further away.

And that is actually proven to be true. Again, the data. Yeah.

I always like to say math has no opinion. The first time homebuyer average age right now is 38 years old. Wow. 

That is 10 years older than Gen X. Wow. So they were we were buying homes in our 20s. They're buying homes in their 30s, living with their parents longer, renting longer.

And so there is actual data to show that American dream, that home purchase has been further, is further and further away. Here's the other thing. You're right.

It is it is real. It's a real thing. The average age of a homebuyer today, average is 56 years old.

What? Yes. So I thought about that from the perspective of you're 56 and you have a 30 year mortgage. Wow. 

Right. Yes. The average age is 56 years old right now.

So these are real things. But the first time homebuyer, which is, you know, what they want to be. The average first time homebuyer is 38.

So this has gotten away from them. The home purchase has been delayed. I still think that it doesn't mean that it it's deferred, not, you know, not something that will be denied.

OK. And I think that not denied. Yes, exactly.

But I think I, you know, just hearing and I know for many of you, just hearing that it is real, it's not in your head. It's not made up. It's not, you know, the lazy generation.

It's statistics don't lie. Math doesn't lie. Yes. 

Yes. So what are the biggest mistakes this gen Z generation is making financially, do you think? Well, I think there are a couple. And these mistakes are the same old mistakes. 

OK. I wish I could say they were new. They're not.

They're repeating the mistakes of prior generations. And some of those mistakes are everything. And can less afford to repeat those mistakes, don't you think? Correct.

Can less afford it. Correct. Yeah.

That's a really, really excellent point. Yeah. So one example is just the debt, the credit card debt.

Now, the credit card debt is higher. But even if you adjust for inflation and even adjusted for inflation, it's 25 percent higher than the previous generation. So credit card debt is higher.

But that cycle of multiple credit cards, of paying the minimum payment. This is a lifetime of debt. And just convincing them that that debt, that they have to break the cycle on that debt in terms of the number of credit cards they have.

As I said, paying the minimum. I bought props for you just to see my own props. OK, this is my life.

Green, not fancy. Yeah. I use one card.

I use one card and then my Chase debit card. And that's it because I don't want any balances. Now, you don't want multiple, multiple, multiple or paying interest on multiple things. 

Yes, I don't want to pay. So, you know, to the extent that everyone and I know this is impossible for everyone to buy something and pay it off, it is absolutely the best way. So you're not carrying that debt.

But if you have to carry debt, do not just pay the minimum. Even a few dollars can make a difference. Five dollars more.

Ten dollars more than that minimum payment can take years off of debt. Literally years. And so that minimum payment trap is something I'd like to see stopped because you see something and you think to yourself, oh, the minimum payment is only twenty dollars on this thousand dollar purchase or whatever it is.

You're going to be paying the rest of your life. Years, eight, nine, ten years. Yeah. 

Wow. I hear a lot of Gen Zers saying going to college was a waste of their money. Fifty one percent.

Are saying that? Yes, 51 percent. And what do you want to say about that? Was it? It's the best money they've ever spent. There is good debt and there is bad debt.

I consider education good debt. And even though it costs a lot and that student debt can be with you for a long time. I want to start with just the fundamental idea, which I know you will agree with.

You are learning. And that is something that people can never take away from you ever. The gift of an education is something that is a gift that keeps giving.

And so I really want to make sure we understand the most fundamental piece of it. And I think the smarter person goes through life with better decision making, better socialization. And I could get better discipline, better discipline.

Exactly. Yeah. You know, having to achieve something like a degree, the worst thing you can do.

Worst. You go to college, you take on student debt and you don't graduate. That's the kiss of death because you don't have the degree and you have all the debt.

It is the it'd be better not to go to college. Because in that situation, you don't have the debt. But if you go and you fall short of the degree, it is you don't have the degree.

Correct. Now, here's the thing about the degree. There is a direct correlation between how much education you get in this society and how much money you make.

So if you graduate from high school, you make one amount. You graduate from college. You do make more. 

You get a master's. You make more than that. This is just a fact.

I can show you this across all sorts of of fields. However, the gap isn't as wide as it was before. And some some other areas like trades, the trades jobs also because of scarcity that we've had in this country.

They're making really good living. Yeah, we're going to talk to some people doing that without going to college. So I just want to say, but even to get to be a member of a trade, you have to have some education.

That's right. Certification. That's right.

You have to apprentice. You know, there are things that that you have to do. So there's still an investment that you have to make in time and oftentimes money.

It just may be different than a four year degree. But I'm just going to tell you another example of just why this education is worth it. If you just look at unemployment statistics today, now we have virtually full employment in this country at four percent, meaning most people want to work do.

If you have a degree, that unemployment number is under two percent. Right now, because we have virtually full employment, it doesn't seem like a big deal. But when you start getting into periods where people are losing a lot of jobs, the person with the degree is more likely to work. 

It's a fact. That's why it's the best money ever spent. I truly, truly, actually, really.

I really mean that it's a lot of money. So and I I've had student loans, so I know, you know, I'm not sitting here from a perspective. I don't know what people are talking about, but I can tell you, I aggressively paid them off aggressively.

And I feel feel like that education gave me a lot of opportunities. Yeah, I think a lot of people say that because they think going to college, you're going to college just to get a job. But what you just clarified, I mean, I got it like, aha, you're learning.

And you're not just learning about how to get out and get a job. It's expanding you. The four years you you bring so much to yourself.

It's so it once I did a commencement address for on money. And I said the thing about it, I researched all these commencement addresses and no one ever talks about money. But I said, most of your parents think you're here to get a good job.

That's right. But there's no commencement address on the address on the facts of what you're the situation you're in and what you're confronting. It's super interesting because this whole concept of money is such a taboo concept in our society.

Even though I joked in the commencement address, there are plenty of songs about money. Yeah, but we don't talk about it. We can sing about it, but we don't talk about it.

That's right. So this this whole idea of education, I really do think it's gotten a bad rap. And I understand why.

Because the cost of an education have far outstripped inflation. It's the cost has grown faster than inflation. So people feel these it's moved so fast and so far.

They feel that they've been taken advantage. Well, that's why I thought that priceless facts about money that you did for learning how to talk to your kids about it and sharing interesting facts about money was so vital, mainly because, as you and I know, most people grow up not having any conversations about it. It's like there's this I don't know, stigma, shame around it.

You know, my father never discussed it and just said, never have any any credit card debt. You know, you never want to never buy anything. When I was growing up, it's called layaway.

Never buy anything on layaway. Don't have any credit cards, but never really an understanding about money. So to start that conversation early and what I really think is God knows this should be taught in schools.

It should be taught in schools. Don't you agree? Absolutely. The state of Maine bought the book for every elementary school student.

And I thought about 13000 books. I thought it was such a genius idea. And I applaud them for doing that, because I do think it's a powerful tool in the hands of a young person.

And it is something that is really life changing once you get rooted in both the comfort of the conversation and the actual actual subject. Because a lot of kids, as we're going to find out today, people who never had a conversation about money. We have Gen Z are zooming in with questions for Melody.

Kayla is joining us from California. I hear you've been what? Nodding along with this conversation. Tell us. 

Tell us what's going on with you. Well, thank you so much for having me. And I I have been everything that Melody is saying and everything that, you know, just is being said.

I'm just like, yep, definitely, definitely something that I agree with or I'm experiencing right now. What's your situation? Tell us what's happening. Well, I mean, my situation kind of all started when I graduated nursing school in the height of the pandemic in 2020.

And that was already a struggle in itself. But I think I kind of dug myself deeper into that hole with the use of credit cards, because it was difficult to start off with no job, with no nursing job, trying to find a position. And that kind of just spiraled into maxing out those credit cards and just and to the point of maxing out those credit cards, the total of 20 K, not including the student loans that I have from nursing school.

But I think I just hit that peak of my money situation when it came to the point that I wasn't able to pay for even just like a five dollar meal, like a fast food meal. And I was even utilizing those buying out pay laters, which is what layaways are called now. I was utilizing those for groceries.

So I knew I had to change something. And so I kind of held myself. You knew this when you couldn't pay for lunch.

You knew this when you couldn't pay for lunch. Yeah, it was literally just a lunch that I had that I wanted to get for myself for during work. I wasn't able to do it.

And I cried that day. It was I knew when I cried for that meal. I knew that was my breaking point.

And so are you doing the thing? Have you been doing, Kayla, the thing that Melody just said? Don't do. And that is making the minimum payment on your cards. Just the minimum. 

Yeah. Yes, I since 2020, I've accumulated about five credit cards. And since then, I've been just doing the minimums.

And I just recently actually calculated all of the interest that I was paying over these five years. And yeah, what was the number? I can't remember on the top of my head, but combination of everything was five thousand plus. Wow. 

Wow. Yeah. So and that really like lit a fire in me.

Isn't that interesting? Because most people I mean, that's why everything I was nodding to everything Melody said, because you don't think about it. I remember when I first came out of college and got my first credit card. I was so excited.

And you think only 20 percent minimum, only 15 percent minimum payment. And you think, oh, well, that's not so much. And then you get three or four credit cards.

And before you know it, you have so much debt. You don't see how you're going to get yourself out of it. Yeah, it just it just ended up being a whole snowball effect of using all the credit cards and I think putting it all on paper in front of me and seeing all the numbers in front of me, I think that's when it clicked and put me back into reality of we need to do something about this.

So what's your question for Melody? So my question is, with me now paying off these credit cards, I have paid five K out of the 20 so far. It is also very difficult to maintain just the lifestyle. And if there's any emergencies that happen, I don't know if I'll have the money.

And I have about five K that I've already paid off from one of the credit cards. I don't want to result back to that. So my question is, how can I continue to have this progress of paying my credit cards off, but also have a good cushion with an emergency fund doing this all at the same time? OK, well, I think you're going to have to prioritize.

I like that you have really gotten clear about your situation. And I like that you put the bills in front of you. One of the disadvantages that to the great advantage you all have is being digital natives is that because you are digital, you can avoid a lot of the reality by not, you know, just having the piece of paper in front of you and checking.

And you tend to pay digitally. You tend to, you know, go through that life that way. So the first thing I would say that I would want you to do is I would want you to pay off the most expensive debt first.

There's a saying that it's very expensive to be poor. The less money you have, the higher debt, the higher interest rates you might be paying. So get rid of the ones that are the highest interest rates first, because trying to save against those interest rates gets very hard.

It's like having a bucket with a hole in it. Something's leaking out, even though you're filling the bucket with money. So you want to get rid of those high interest rate credit cards first and really be deliberate about it.

So you might you maybe have paid five thousand so far. You might say, I'm going to get rid of this one totally first and still pay these minimums. Does that make sense? Look at each by the interest rate they're charging you and be very clear about that.

And you have to be extremely disciplined about not restarting. So once you clear one of those cards, you're going to have to be ruthless about it, that you don't start again because you see that zero balance that might be sitting there. The second thing that I think is really important is I a little bit of savings can go a long way and become very, very addictive.

So I'm going to ask you to do something that is going to seem so small, but every dollar does count like the show The Bear. They say every second counts. This is every dollar counts.

OK, start by saving 50 cents a day for two months. Literally 50 cents. You can have a jar of change, but 50 cents a day in that jar.

After two months, I want it to be a dollar. I know this seems like so, you know, Melody, what are you asking me to do? After two months, I want it to be three dollars. OK. 

And after the and the last four months, I want you to try to save five dollars a day. Now, five dollars a day. We're talking about thirty five dollars a week.

We're talking about one hundred and forty dollars a month. That gets hard. But in those early days, you start to condition yourself.

I love this because you've trained yourself. It's not. And this becomes a way of life, not a diet.

It's very, very important. It just starts to be a way of life and saving becomes addictive. So everyone that I've had do this, they see a little money.

They get excited. They start to see more money. They get more excited.

So that I love this. This is so much for everybody. I will say save 10 percent of your.

No, it's too hard. It's too hard. 50 cents, a dollar, two dollars, three dollars, five dollars.

At the end of that year, you have almost a thousand dollars. And that's a little cushion. And it's you didn't start by saying, I got to save a thousand dollars, which when you're, you know, living paycheck to paycheck, that seems impossible.

But if I start you at 50 cents, I promise you can get there. The other thing I'd like to ask you to do for one month period. 30 days, 30 days is just use cash for one month.

OK, you cannot use anything else. This is why it's important. If I ask most people, how much money do you have in your wallet? People can't even tell me.

But, you know, if you only had cash and so you only use cash, which actually changes how much you spend, believe it or not, when we don't see and have to take the bills out, right, we spend more money. So we spend about 18 percent more on plastic debit or credit because we the scarcity isn't there where you're you literally have no more bills in your wallet. You've got to go to an ATM and get more money cash for one month.

It is going to shift how you think about what you buy. Starting today, one month a day. OK, starting to that is that's on the to do list that that'll get you a little bit of an emergency fund.

But but I want to prioritize that debt first, because 15000 dollars in debt at your age is still a lot of debt. Yeah, and that's not even including because I have my student loans and I'm currently in school right now, along with like a car loan. So, however, I have to tell you, first of all, you need the car to get to work.

So, you know, that's probably unless you're going to take the bus. The other thing I have to say, and sometimes there isn't public transportation in certain communities. The other thing I would say, you nailed it with nursing because it's so in demand that is a really good job.

And that is there is a shortage of nurses in this country and there will be a for a while. And so you're going to be looking at great income in terms of nursing. Yes, definitely. 

I'm very proud of where I am. So very grateful. So good job there. 

Good job. Thank you. Thank you so much, Kayla.

Let's talk about the buy now, pay later services that Kayla mentioned. What should young people know about these services? This is what makes me nervous. OK, on the one hand, I can tell you that they have these buy now, pay laters.

Well, they'll say a year without interest. Yeah, you're going to buy it. Yeah. 

No payment for one year. No interest. Sounds good. 

Enticing. If you can be very disciplined about that. So you're going to buy a refrigerator and you're not going to pay interest for one year, basically the float that you the interest they're paying for in order to get you.

But what happens is most people aren't that disciplined. The interest then comes and then it starts hitting you very, very hard. And the numbers are very big.

That's why I don't love it. So if you said to me, I bought the refrigerator, I paid it off in six months, I never paid a dime of interest and I paid the refrigerator off full stop. We're good.

But if you say I bought the refrigerator, I got to the one year and then I started to pay the interest, I could promise you that interest is going to be very high. Then you're going to be in that minimum payment scenario. There's a reason they offer it to you.

They're getting paid back some way and they're going to get paid back. The reason they're offering it to you is because they're counting on you going through that year and then waiting and they can correct. I'm not a big fan.

OK, we have Maria joining us from Boston. And I hear after you graduated last spring, you applied for over 300 jobs. Wow. 

What happened? I well, thank you so much. It is a pleasure speaking with both you today. So taking you back last year after I had graduated, I was applying to jobs like nobody's business and I was able to get interviews.

However, they differed from what I had applied to. So in a handful of circumstances, I would get on these interviews and it wasn't just the interviewer and I. It was myself, them and a handful of other applicants. So that wasn't disclosed.

And then when they started describing the job positions, I realized that it also differed from what I had applied to. So I had applied to a marketing position online and what they were describing were door to door sales. So this happened in multiple different occasions.

And then there were also times where I was asked to do work projects as a part of the interview process. And these work projects were unpaid and they would take hours or even days to complete. And it may have been naive on my part.

You know, I really wanted to prove that I was a solid applicant and that I had the skills for the job at hand. So after turning in these projects, I was ghosted by a lot of companies. So that was very discouraging and disheartening.

There was one circumstance where I was the top applicant. I made it to a final round. I spent a whole week working on a work project and they had told me all great things.

So about a week later, I got a call from the recruiter and he had simply told me that they went with another applicant who had more experience. And so that just kind of hurt as it was an entry level position. And I had completed a lot of the work.

I ended up asking the recruiter for, you know, more feedback. And once again, I was ghosted. So with all of that said, I have come out on the other side.

I have a job now, but I know that my story is not unique. There are so many other people in my generation and in others who are experiencing this or even worse right now. And I do believe that my generation was raised on the premise that the American dream was still within reach, that if we ended up going to college and obtaining a degree, that we would be able to get a good job and set ourselves up for success in the future.

And with this job market, I just feel like that system is no longer as accurate as it once was before. So my question for you, Melody, is what advice would you give to my generation when it comes to building a stable and successful future while maintaining a healthy work life balance and really just not living paycheck to paycheck? OK, can I ask one question? How did you get the job that you have? I had a networking connection, and I really do believe that if I didn't have that connection, I very well could still be job searching. OK, great, because that would be one of the things that I would suggest just in terms of that job search.

It's not just about putting applications in online and hoping someone calls you back. I think that takes the same amount of work as anything you would do. And it's about who do you know? So many people have referrals that will get you somewhere.

And the mere fact that it was a networking connection, I think that's more and more likely these days than not. You might have a friend who has a great job and you would say, do you think there are any jobs available at your company or is there anyone you could introduce me to at your company? So I think that is a really, really good option if you're looking for a job that maybe everyone doesn't think about because they often think, well, who's going to help me? And how could I? What network do I have? But it could just be a simple network of someone that you know who has a who talks about their place of employment in a very positive way in terms of I like to just be very authentic and real about these things when you're in your 20s. The work like balance question, I think, is going to be challenged because those are heavy, heavy work years of trying to put in the time to get points on the board so that you have the opportunity to have the kind of freedom and success that you want over time.

But that first decade, it's a dues paying decade. And so when I hear a nine to five, which seems to me pretty work life balance, that's 40 hours a week. When I think of no work life balance, I think of 80 hours.

I think of 120. I think of a very different lifestyle. I think you have to ask yourself very and be very intellectually honest about what do you want.

So you can't have all of the things you want without making some trade offs. And you certainly can't have it all at one time. Correct.

I think this is such an invaluable point you're making about work like balance. And I hear this a lot because I have girls in their 20s and you don't have work life balance when you're just started out and you're 25. There is no such thing.

There is no such thing. Someone else controls your time. That's the fact.

When you think of your 20s, how hard did you work? I was working a hundred. I remember once filling out my time sheet and I had a hundred and seven hours on a hundred and seven hours. And my boss says, well, you're not a team player.

I'm not a team player. Yes, I think you should reduce the number of wanting me to not even take credit for the hours. So I ended up doing that, ended up only putting in like 80 because to work a hundred and seven hours and get paid for hundreds of an hour.

They don't want to pay me for seven hours. But the expectation was that I would show up and be there whenever needed. We've all done that.

A hundred and seven hours. Still doing it. And still doing it and still doing it.

But yeah, but that's why I said you have to decide. I do think this generation has been fed some dream idea of work life balance that just isn't real. It's not real.

Now that I also I reject the concept because it implies when you're working, you're not living, when you're living, you're not working. You know, when people talk about that. And I think you can have both, especially if you are doing something you really enjoy.

But I do think this idea of thinking that you'll have your weekends, you'll make a great living, all of these things all at once. You'll have a job that you.

